Welcome to Operators.
After watching this video,
you will be able to define
an operator and
explain its purpose,
show the relation between
custom controllers,
the operator pattern,
and custom resource
definitions or CRDs,
and explain the purpose
of the operator hub,
framework, and maturity model.
Operators automate
cluster tasks and act as
a custom controller to
extend the Kubernetes API.
Operators run in a
pod and interact with
the API server package, deploy,
and manage Kubernetes
applications
and automate app creation,
configuration, and
management via continuous
real-time decisions.
Operators package, deploy,
and manage native
apps in Kubernetes,
automate other tasks, and
ensure all relevant
components are included.
There are human operators
and software operators.
Human operators understand
the system they control.
They know how to
deploy services and
how to recognize
and fix problems.
Software operators try to
capture the knowledge of
human operators and automate
the same processes.
Operators provide ease of
repeatable installation
and upgrade processes,
regular full-system
health checks
of each component in the system,
over-the-air or OTA updates
for components and
software vendors content,
a way to collect and
spread knowledge
from field engineers
to all users,
and integrations with APIs and
CLI tools such as
kubectl and oc commands.
Let's see how service brokers
compare with operators.
Service brokers provide
a short-running
process that cannot
perform the consecutive days
operations such as upgrades,
failover, or scaling,
customizations and parameterization
only at the time of installation
, and off-cluster services.
Operators provide a
long-running process
that can perform operations,
like upgrades, failover,
or scaling every day,
customizations and
parameterizations
as operators constantly
watch the current state of
your cluster, and
off-cluster services.
Custom resource definitions or
CRDs store and retrieve
objects in the Kubernetes API.
CRDs extend Kubernetes
functionality beyond
built-in resources like
deployments and pods.
They make the Kubernetes API
more modular and flexible.
Users can install
CRDs and clusters,
but each CRD is
available only in the
cluster it is installed,
and once installed,
CRD objects are
accessible using kubectl,
similar to pods and
other resources.
To change the state
of a cluster,
custom controllers are used.
Controllers reconcile a
cluster's actual state
with its configured state.
Custom controllers do
the same reconciling
for custom resources.
Combining CRDs and
custom controllers
creates a declarative API.
This combination is known
as the operator pattern.
Custom controllers
interpret CRD data as
the desired state and reconcile
a cluster's actual state
to match the CRD data.
The operate framework is
an open source toolset
that covers coding,
testing, delivery,
and operator updates.
The operator SDK, which
includes helm, go,
and and symbol helps
authors build, test,
and package their
operators without
requiring knowledge of
Kubernetes API complexities.
The operator life
cycle manager or
OLM controls the install,
upgrade, and role-based
access control
or RBAC of operators
in a cluster.
The operator registry
stores CRDs,
cluster service
versions or CSVs,
and operator metadata for
packages and channels.
It runs in Kubernetes
or OpenShift clusters
to provide the operator
catalog data to OLM.
The OperatorHub web console lets
cluster administrators
find operators
to install on their cluster.
The sophistication of
operator management logic
varies depending on the type of
service represented
by the operator.
This operator maturity model
defines the phases of
maturity for general day
to operation
activities and ranges
from basic install
to auto-pilot.
It also shows which activities
are supported by the helm,
go, and and symbol capabilities
of the operator SDK.
Some operator examples include
deploying an application
to the OpenShift cluster.
This can go beyond deployments
to include secrets,
config maps, and
storage resources,
scaling the application
with the help of
multiple replicas based
on the application type,
automation of wrote tasks in
a cluster like taking and
restoring backups of
an application state,
and integration.
Let's consider more
about the first example.
To deploy a whole application,
create a custom
resource for that app
and then a custom
controller for that CRD.
The operator logic
determines how to
reconcile the actual
and configure states.
A CRD requires the
creation of deployments,
services, storage,
and other objects.
The OperatorHub view of
the OpenShift web console
enables operator
installation with one click.
OperatorHub has many
different types
of operators available,
including Red Hat operators,
certified operators from
independent service vendors
partnered with Red Hat,
community operators from
the open source community
but not officially
supported by Red Hat,
and custom operators
defined by users.
You can install many tools from
the Kubernetes ecosystem
via the OperatorHub.
An example is the
Istio service mesh.
In this video, you learn that
CRDs extend the Kubernetes API.
CRDs paired with
custom controllers
create new declarative
APIs in Kubernetes.
Operators use CRDs and
custom controllers to
automate cluster tasks.
The operator framework covers
coding, testing, delivery,
and updates, and the
operator maturity model
defines the phases of
maturity for activities.